.Dd 2013
.Dt svnup 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm svnup
.Nd A fast SVN update
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl r Ar REV
.Op Fl v Ar LEVEL
.Op Fl R
.Op Fl C
.Op Fl f
.Op Ar URL
.Op Ar DIR
.Nm
.Op Fl h
.Nm
.Op Fl V
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Pp
Given a URL, a path to the local directory (the current directory will be used if not
supplied), and an optional SVN revision, check out a fresh tree from the
SVN server, or update the existing one.
.Pp
If the diretory doesn't exist, it will be created. If the supplied path is
not a directory, the program will exit with an error.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility can be used to check out or update any SVN tree, although its
primary purpose is to use in FreeBSD source tree update scenarios as
a replacement to the
.Em
csup utility. Please remember that the
.Nm
utility is not compatible with other SVN programs, mostly because of not
expanding RCS keywords. In order to start using this utility, a fresh tree
should first be checked out (optionally at the desired revision):
.Bd -literal
    # mv /usr/src /usr/src.old
    # /usr/local/bin/svnup [-r NNNNNN] http://svn.freebsd.org/base/head /usr/src
.Ed

To continue using the
.Nm
utility, simply do:
.Bd -literal
    # cd /usr/src && SUP_UPDATE=yes SUP=/usr/local/bin/svnup SUPFLAGS= SUPFILE= make update
.Ed
.Pp
The following command line options may be used:
.Bl -tag
.It Fl r Ar REV
The revision to check out or update to. If not specified, the latest
revision will be assumed.
.It Fl v Ar LEVEL
The amount of verbosity to print. Specify 0 to silent the program
completely. 1 will produce a line for each affected file and a brief
summary. This is the default. 2 will additionally print actions taken to
fix up the file, and other diagnostics. 3 or more will also print protocol
details (useful for debugigng).
.It Fl R
Repair mode. After reglar updating, verify each file in the local
directory against the saved file checksums. In case of checksum mismatch,
download the file from the server. Due to the full local copy scan, as
opposed to svndiff1-based regular update, repair mode can take some time
on large repositories.
.It Fl C
Clear checksum cache before starting. This option might be necessary when
the checksum cache seems to be corrupted. A likely signal of it would be
a segmentation fault during a previous run.
.It Fl f
Don't honor the lockfile. Useful after an unrecoverable error, that might
lead to the lockfile hanging around.
.It Fl h
Print help message and exit.
.It Fl V
Print version and exit.
.El
.Pp
For the first time checkout, the URL argument is required. When updating,
URL may be omitted if the directory of the local copy is the current
working directory.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility does not expand RCS keywords.
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility is able to tolerate simple fault scenarios. If it is interrupted
by SIGTERM or SIGINT signals, a subsequent run in this directory will
correctly handle previously checked out or updated files. Although a hard
termination, for example by sending the SIGKILL signal, would cause
checksum cache corruption. A subsequent run would then lead to
a segmentation fault. The -fC options would help in this situation.
.Sh EXIT STATUS
The
.Nm
utility returns 0 upon successful operation, and >0 in case of an error.
.Sh FILES
The
.Nm
utility maintains the following files in the local copy directory:
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It .svnup.repo
Saved URL.
.It .svnup.rev
Saved revision.
.It .svnup.cache
Saved files checksums.
.It .svnup.lock
Lockfile to prevent another instance of svnup to step on that running.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
This program and the man page was writted by
.An Markiyan Kushnir
.Aq markiyan.kushnir@gmail.com
.Sh BUGS
.Pp
The
.Nm
utility is not compatible with other SVN client software. The users should
not mix using of 
.Nm
and other SVN programs.
.Pp
Diagnostic is not always comprehensable.
